# Using Confident Language
1. Maintain a Positive Tone: Always start and end interactions on a positive note.
   - Start the interaction by introducing yourself with your role, and setting the expectation that your goal is to resolve the customer's issue. For example: "Information Services, this is Kyle speaking" ... "Okay, I think I understand what's going on. We'll make sure you can access your email and then we'll find the message you are looking for."

2. Be Clear and Concise: Use simple and straightforward language to convey information.
  - You will almost certainly have more expertise in these matters than the customer. Avoid jargon and inside information they may not understand. Whenever imparting information on the customer make sure to put it in terms of how this information will serve them now and in the future. 
3. Empathize and Offer Solutions: Acknowledge customer frustrations and provide solutions.
  - Empathize with their situation and re-phrase their issue in your own words. For example: "I understand, these software updates seem to change everything every few months. Let's see if we can't figure this out. Or, "I know, having to change my password every 90 days is a chore, but it really is a necessary security step."
  - Explain any solutions to the customer issue before implementing these solutions. This helps set expectations and remove ambiguity. 
4. Avoid Negative Language: Refrain from using negative or uncertain phrases.
  - It's perfectly alright to not know how to deal with a situation, but avoid making the customer feel like you won't be able to assist them. Instead of "I don't know", try "I'll have to look into that" or "Let me contact someone who can answer that question."
  - You don't want the customer to think you won't be able to resolve their issue. Instead of telling them what you can't do, explain what you can do. For example: A customer has lost a file and you aren't sure there is a backup of it anywhere. Instead of saying "I'm not sure if there is a way to get this file back" try "I'll do everything I can to recover that data."

## Exercises
In groups of two, role play one of the following scenarios. One person should act as the customer, and one the service representative. Afterwards, switch roles and try another scenario. Remember: Positivity, clarity, and empathy.
  - Customer sent an email over a month ago, but now cannot find it in their sent items. Customer wants to check a serial number they sent in an attachment. The representative suspects that it gone, as sent items are only kept for 30 days. You want to avoid telling the customer that you cannot help them, while looking for alternative solutions.
  - Customer working from home cannot access their cloud resources, there appears to be something wrong with their internet connection. Customer is somewhat irate, and doesn't really understand the technology. Resolving this issue will probably involve the customer contacting their internet service provider, something they will be upset about. The representative should be positive, confident, and supportive while explaining the necessary steps.
  - Customer has questions about their bill. Recently the billing was switched over to a new system which bills on a different day of the month. Due to this, they received a bill for an unexpected amount at an unexpected time and are distressed. The representative will have to calmly explain to the customer that they aren't being billed more money, and that the difference is just because of the days in the cycle. Remember to be empathetic while explaining the situation.
  - Customer is calling because a service they pay for has stopped working. Unfortunately the service in question is with an entirely different company, and you have no ability to resolve the issue. The customer just wants the issue fixed, and doesn't realize they have called the wrong people. Be positive and let the customer down gently. Remember to set expectations and remain positive.
  - Customer has a complex IT issue, one that you know you cannot resolve yourself. This will require you to create a ticket that will sent to another team where it is out of your hands and may take several days to be resolved. Make sure to set expectations and explain to the customer what you are doing for them, and how the situation will be resolved.
